@ifclear included
@settitle INSTALL
@node Top
@top INSTALL
@menu
* Installation:: none
@end menu
@end ifclear

@node Installation
@chapter Installation

Here is a guide to installing the Lispbot on your system.

It assumes that you have some basic knowledge of your LISP environment.

@menu
* Download::            Where to get the Lispbot.
* Dependencies::        Required packages.
* ASDF::                Installation using ASDF.
* Non ASDF::            Installation without ASDF.
@end menu

@node Download
@section Download

As there is no released version of Lispbot yet, you have to get it from
git. This has the advantage, that you can stay up to date easily.

To download the master branch of the lispbot type:

@example
git clone git://gitorious.org/lispbot/lispbot.git
@end example

You can than get the latest changes by @code{cd}'ing into the lispbot
directory and typing:

@example
git pull
@end example

@node Dependencies
@section Dependencies

Lispbot depends on the following external libraries:

@itemize
@item cl-ppcre (http://weitz.de/cl-ppcre)
@item cl-irc (http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-irc)
@item split-sequence (http://www.cliki.net/SPLIT-SEQUENCE)
@end itemize

Please note that currently there seems to be some incompatibility between
cl-irc and its dependency flexi-streams. If you get an error about a symbol
from flexi-streams not being found, please use the SVN version of cl-irc.

@node ASDF
@section ASDF

If you want to use ASDF to load the lispbot, create symbolic links from the .asd
files in the root and plugin directories to a place where asdf looks for system
definition files. For example @file{~/.sbcl/systems}.

If you use a lisp implementation that doesn't bundle asdf, you probably have to
load the asdf.lisp file from somewhere.

When asdf is loaded and all the dependencies are installed, you should
be able to load/compile the lispbot with:

@example
(asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op 'lispbot)
(asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op 'lispbot-plugins)
@end example

@node Non ASDF
@section Non ASDF

It is also possible, though not recommended, to just load all the .lisp files
without asdf.

